in its offensive against Hamas Israel's
military is Shifting its focus further
south in the last 24 hours air strikes
and artillery Fire have hit Targets in
Central and Southern Gaza killing at
least 165 Palestinians that is according
to local officials the United Nations
estimates that some 100,000 gazin are
newly displaced many of them not for the
first time Israeli forces say they're
making progress in their search for
weapons Depots and secret hideouts used
by Hamas it is designated a terrorist
organization by the US Germany and
several other
countries Israeli troops attacking a
southern Gaza base from where Hamas
militants presumably set out to invade
Israel on October 7th this footage from
Israel's military shows an ongoing
operation to gain control of the site
the goal dismantling Hamas
infrastructure and tracking down its
leaders
hideouts
Israel's military says it has destroyed
several Hamas tunnels all over the Gaza
Strip This latest one in the
north we found a very significant Hamas
tunnel Network a network used by senior
officials it's very deep deeper than the
previous ones this tunnel is different
it has an elevator that goes down a very
long tunnel shaft the fighting has led
to one of the worst humanitarian crisis
in the Gaza Street
now Israel is expanding its operations
in the area around the southern city of
Han
unun the local Nasser Hospital says it's
running out of supplies space is limited
but the patients keep
coming the hospital is receiving a lot
more than its capacity in fact we are
functioning at 300% capacity the Beds
Are full most of the time one bed is
holding two patients at the same time
and we are basically short on all sorts
of medical
supplies many of those brought to
hospitals are collected by members of
the red crescent who transport the dead
and wounded through streets filled with
debris and with no signs of a
deescalation there appears to be no
respite for a population caught in the
crossfire according to the Hamas run
Gaza Health Ministry Israel's offensive
has killed more than
21,500
Palestinians the United Nations
estimates that about 85% of gaza's
population is now
displaced for more we can talk to Bushra
khi she is the policy lead for the
Palestinian territories for Oxfam and
joins us today from the occupied West
Bank welcome abush what can you tell us
about the situation in Gaza and after
these latest Israeli
strikes well uh I'm in fact personally
affected by what's happened this week in
Gaza especially in the mzi massacre on
uh Christmas Eve uh I have my family um
in maazi refugee camp at the moment uh a
distant relative of ours lost um his son
lost two legs um in that
attack uh and now the question and for
my family including is where do we go
next and where is safe for us to go next
um they've already been displaced three
times this is the story of probably very
a lot most uh people in Gaza um where
there is nowhere to go they're trapped
in a small strip of land uh with no food
no water no proper Health Care no
electricity um no fuel uh no Telecom um
and very very very little Aid coming in
and even whatever Aid comes in uh could
never be enough to really meet the needs
of an
entire an entire city devastated I'm so
sorry to hear about your family member
there uh this this is clearly an issue
affecting you personally as well I'm
sorry to jump in we are just hearing
though that Israel's military has
announced a 4-Hour tactical pause in
fighting in the south of the Gaza strip
and I'm wondering from your professional
experience how much you think uh these
temporary breaks uh like this could help
aid workers to do their
jobs absolutely nothing four hours to
meet the needs of 2.2 million people
we're talking about half of which are
children many are sick many are wounded
um people it's it's it's absolute chaos
uh people are are fighting for their
lives every single day um 4 hours
is it's it's meaningless really it's
just like the truth you know a few a few
weeks ago and US humanitarian
organizations were raising the alarm
Bell on this and how you know a 5-day
pause is nothing in comparison to the
needs that we're seeing we're seeing
we're talking about almost 60 to 70,000
people injured um many of which with
extremely traumatic injuries we're
talking about people already in
hospitals we're also talking about
elderly my parents-in-law are elderly
people um they need a medication for
their hearts and and different kind of
things that they can't even get um so
it's not just about how much Aid comes
in from in the 4 hours it's about a
complete and permanent ceasefire an end
to the Relentless bombing an end to the
war crimes that we're seeing being
committed um and uh a restoration of
services and and a proper environment
for humanitarian workers to work in this
is not an envir an environment where we
would be okay as humanitarian workers to
send our teams to deliver Aid in it's
it's it would breach our duty of care to
our own teams well thank you very much
for joining us to share uh your personal
experience and and the work of Aid
workers uh as Israel says it is
continuing its offensive against Hamas
there that is Bush Hal oxfam's policy
lead for the Palestinian territories we
very much appreciate your
time thank you Israeli Prime Minister
Benyamin netan who says the war with
hamus will continue for many more months
and the border between Gaza and Egypt
should be under Israeli control
thousands of protesters have rallied
again in Tel Aviv demanding the release
of Israeli hostages and calling for new
elections Israel is coming under
increasing International pressure to
find a long-term solution to the
conflict South Africa has filed a case
against Israel at the international
court of justice accusing it of
genocide Shane Dari is deputy director
of the Irish Center for human rights in
the School of Law at the University of
gway I asked him to explain what kind of
evidence South Africa is putting
forward so South Africa has made a very
detailed submission to the international
court of justice in which it goes
through the various elements of the
crime of genocide and this is a highly
significant development in the context
of Gaza St states don't tend to take
these Interstate cases um that regularly
we've seen one more recently in the
context of Gambia versus Myanmar and I
think it reflects the seriousness of the
situation in Gaza where we've seen
destruction displacement and the killing
of those civilians including many
children on a scale that outpaces many
of the world's recent and indeed ongoing
conflicts um the UN has highlighted
severe risks of starvation and the
spreading of disease as a result of the
conditions imposed upon Gaza by Israel
so what are the chances of this actually
stopping the
war so the idea of taking this
particular case from South South
Africa's persp perspective it seems is
to try and put an end to the actions
that Israel is taking against Gaza at
present so they're alleging that uh
Israel is engaging in the in the crime
of genocide what has been referred to as
as the crime of crimes they're saying
that Israel is is violating its ongoing
it's engaged in an ongoing violation of
its obligations under the 1948 genocide
convention uh both South Africa and
Israel are parties to the 1948 genocide
convention so this allows for interested
states to take proceedings to the
international court of justice it's it
is as I said an unprecedented step but
as I say also I think it reflects the
seriousness of the situation un experts
have been highlighting the risks of
genocide for for over a month or so as
well as other crimes that are taking
place so the idea is that if the court
makes a pronouncement such as
provisional measures as are requested it
could deter Israel from from its
activities but will Israel Heed These
Warnings from the court
well the response from Israel so far has
been to condemn South Africa's approach
the international court of justice
calling it a blood liable saying that
it's anti-semitic um the court can
proceed um if it finds that the claim is
well founded in both fact uh and law um
Israel I think would be well advised to
to adhere to judgments of the
international court of justice now it
didn't do so previously in the context
of an advisory opinion concerning the
construction of of the wall in the
Westbank
and along the green line but it does
carry significant political Fallout of
Estates that seem to be in defiance of
judgments of the international court of
justice so we had the court issue
provisional measures in the context of
Ukraine versus Russia last year um
Russia did not abide by those
provisional meas measures and it does
reflect the somewhat parias status that
that Russia has that present on the
international stage very interesting
stuff there from Shane Dary human rights
law Professor from the University of
goway thanks very much for being here on
DW let's go over to our correspondent
Jan Philip Schultz he's in Tel Aviv at
yet another demonstration calling for
the release of hostages held in Gaza
what are protesters telling
you they say that they want the
government to find ways to to release
the hostages um they are getting more
and more impatient and they say that
they don't think that the war effort
alone will bring them home there have
been a lot of reports in Israeli media
in the past days that there might be new
talks between uh Israel and the Hamas
regarding a possible new hostage deal um
of course most of the protesters here
would uh support such talks uh they
might lead eventually into they might
lead to another um hostage deal similar
to what we saw a few weeks ago uh where
where the re hostages were released and
there was a temporary ceasefire but it's
too early to say if this is really
something substantial so how much
support would you say there is for the
war at the
moment well in general a majority of
Israelis is supporting the war um they
don't necessarily support prime minister
netan the netan has lost a lot of
support in recent weeks
but the dramatic humanitarian situation
in Gaza is less of a topic here in
Israeli media than uh in uh in many
other countries uh but there is also a
growing peace movement here in Israel a
lot of people say that the war will not
bring security it will only bring more
radicalization but it is a minority a
lot of people still support uh the war
and the military goal to destroy Hamas
now Israel is under growing a pressure
abroad South Africa is taking it to the
international court of justice the US
want civilians protected how's the
government
reacting I think the South African move
will not have a very strong impact a
spokesperson here already rejected the
move uh and said that he is I quote
disgusted by it and so Africa uh itself
is supporting uh terrorism um so uh this
probably doesn't have a lot of impact uh
and as you know um the United States
have also tried to uh increase pressure
on Israel but the result has been very
limited South Africa says that they want
the courts to take action immediately to
issue measures uh in the coming days but
a lot of legal experts say
this is more of a symbolic act anyway
the only thing that it might change is
to increase public pressure and
international pressure on Israel DW's
Yan Philip Schultz with the latest there
from Tel
Aviv